README.md, before:

# firestore_ui

[![pub package](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/firestore_ui.svg)](https://pub.dartlang.org/packages/firestore_ui)

This project started as a [Pull Request](https://github.com/flutter/plugins/pull/757) to the official [cloud_firestore](https://pub.dartlang.org/packages/cloud_firestore) plugin, but unfortunately they are still polishing the main features and this had to be postponed; it's based on [firebase_database](https://pub.dartlang.org/packages/firebase_database)'s version.

But fear not, my fellow Cloud Firestore users, this is a package that extracted the main code from that PR and now it's available to use!

# How to use

All the examples below are from the actual `example` folder, please run that to see how it behaves!

## List

Just set it up as you would with a `ListView.builder`:

```dart
FirestoreAnimatedList(
    query: query,
    itemBuilder: (
        BuildContext context,
        DocumentSnapshot snapshot,
        Animation<double> animation,
        int index,
    ) => FadeTransition(
            opacity: animation,
            child: MessageListTile(
            index: index,
            document: snapshot,
            onTap: _removeMessage,
        ),
    ),
);
```

## Grid

Just set it up as you would with a `GridView.count`, alongside the necessary `crossAxisCount`, all the other parameters from the `SliverGridDelegateWithFixedCrossAxisCount` are also available:

```dart
FirestoreAnimatedGrid(
    query: query,
    crossAxisCount: 2,
    mainAxisSpacing: 4.0,
    childAspectRatio: 1.0,
    crossAxisSpacing: 4.0,
    itemBuilder: (
        BuildContext context,
        DocumentSnapshot snapshot,
        Animation<double> animation,
        int index,
    ) => FadeTransition(
        opacity: animation,
        child: MessageGridTile(
            index: index,
            document: snapshot,
            onTap: _removeMessage,
        ),
    ),
);
```

## Staggered

Just set it up as you would with a `StaggeredGridView.countBuilder`, alongside the necessary `crossAxisCount` and the `staggeredTileBuilder`:

```dart
FirestoreAnimatedStaggered(
    query: query,
    staggeredTileBuilder: (int index, DocumentSnapshot snapshot) => StaggeredTile.count(2, index.isEven ? 2 : 1),
    crossAxisCount: 4,
    mainAxisSpacing: 4.0,
    crossAxisSpacing: 4.0,
    itemBuilder: (
        BuildContext context,
        DocumentSnapshot snapshot,
        Animation<double> animation,
        int index,
    ) => FadeTransition(
        opacity: animation,
        child: MessageGridTile(
            index: index,
            document: snapshot,
            onTap: _removeMessage,
        ),
    ),
);
```

Special thanks to [@letsar](https://github.com/letsar) for the [`flutter_staggered_grid_view`](https://github.com/letsar/flutter_staggered_grid_view) package! Without it, this part wouldn't be available; please check out the library for more info on how it works!

Commit message:

Update to 1.10: breaking change, dependency updates

README.md, after:

# firestore_ui

[![pub package](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/firestore_ui.svg)](https://pub.dartlang.org/packages/firestore_ui)

This project started as a [Pull Request](https://github.com/flutter/plugins/pull/757) to the official [cloud_firestore](https://pub.dartlang.org/packages/cloud_firestore) plugin, but unfortunately they are still polishing the main features and this had to be postponed; it's based on [firebase_database](https://pub.dartlang.org/packages/firebase_database)'s version.

But fear not, my fellow Cloud Firestore users, this is a package that extracted the main code from that PR and now it's available to use!

# Custom parameters

* `bool linear`: This will make it so it just uses `.add` instead of `.insert`, this usually leads to less issues in the order if your list updates linearly (like a chat)
* `void onLoaded(QuerySnapshot snapshot)`: You can use this to access the most recent `QuerySnapshot` that came from the stream
* `bool filter(DocumentSnapshot snapshot)`: This allows you to filter out specific snapshots on the rendering phase, return `true` if you want that item to be filtered
* `bool debug`: Set this to see all logs related to inserting/removing/updating items on any variant of the list

# How to use

All the examples below are from the actual `example` folder, please run that to see how it behaves!

## List

Just set it up as you would with a `ListView.builder`:

```dart
FirestoreAnimatedList(
    query: query,
    itemBuilder: (
        BuildContext context,
        DocumentSnapshot snapshot,
        Animation<double> animation,
        int index,
    ) => FadeTransition(
        opacity: animation,
        child: MessageListTile(
            index: index,
            document: snapshot,
            onTap: _removeMessage,
        ),
    ),
);
```

## Grid

Just set it up as you would with a `GridView.count`, alongside the necessary `crossAxisCount`, all the other parameters from the `SliverGridDelegateWithFixedCrossAxisCount` are also available:

```dart
FirestoreAnimatedGrid(
    query: query,
    crossAxisCount: 2,
    mainAxisSpacing: 4.0,
    childAspectRatio: 1.0,
    crossAxisSpacing: 4.0,
    itemBuilder: (
        BuildContext context,
        DocumentSnapshot snapshot,
        Animation<double> animation,
        int index,
    ) => FadeTransition(
        opacity: animation,
        child: MessageGridTile(
            index: index,
            document: snapshot,
            onTap: _removeMessage,
        ),
    ),
);
```

## Staggered

Just set it up as you would with a `StaggeredGridView.countBuilder`, alongside the necessary `crossAxisCount` and the `staggeredTileBuilder`:

```dart
FirestoreAnimatedStaggered(
    query: query,
    staggeredTileBuilder: (int index, DocumentSnapshot snapshot) => StaggeredTile.count(2, index.isEven ? 2 : 1),
    crossAxisCount: 4,
    mainAxisSpacing: 4.0,
    crossAxisSpacing: 4.0,
    itemBuilder: (
        BuildContext context,
        DocumentSnapshot snapshot,
        Animation<double> animation,
        int index,
    ) => FadeTransition(
        opacity: animation,
        child: MessageGridTile(
            index: index,
            document: snapshot,
            onTap: _removeMessage,
        ),
    ),
);
```

Special thanks to [@letsar](https://github.com/letsar) for the [`flutter_staggered_grid_view`](https://github.com/letsar/flutter_staggered_grid_view) package! Without it, this part wouldn't be available; please check out the library for more info on how it works!
